Tips for better sleep
Many people regularly get poor sleep
and poor sleep has been shown to
negatively affect your hormones,
exercise performance, and brain function.
Over time it can also cause weight gain
and increase disease risk
in both adults and children.
A good night’s sleep is important
for your overall health.
Follow these tips to encourage better sleep.
Follow a consistent sleep schedule
Try to get up at the same time every day,
even on weekends or during vacations.
Set a bedtime that is early enough
for you to get at least 7-8 hours of sleep.
Create a calm and relaxing environment.
Keep your bedroom dark
and a comfortable, cool temperature.
Remove or limit light-emitting screens
such as TVs, computers, and
smart phones from the room.
Establish a relaxing bedtime routine.
Doing calming activities before bedtime,
such as listening to relaxing music,
reading a book, taking a hot bath,
meditating, deep breathing, and visualization
might promote better sleep.
Pay attention to what you eat and drink
Don’t drink caffeine in the afternoon or evening.
Avoid consuming alcohol before bedtime.
Don’t eat a large meal within
a couple of hours of bedtime.
If you are hungry at night,
eat a light, healthy snack.
Reduce your fluid intake before bedtime.
Get some exercise.
Include regular physical activity
during the day.
However, avoid being active
too close to bedtime.
Limit daytime naps.
A short power nap may be beneficial
but limit naps to an hour or less
and avoid napping late in the day.
Almost everyone has
an occasional sleepless night.
However, if you’ve always struggled with sleep,
it’s a good idea to check in
with your healthcare provider
for any underlying conditions.